documentation/TheNewApi.md, before:

# The New API

## Creating test files

These instructions assume that JS Parser was installed via NPM.

Use your favorite text editor to create `getting_started.js` JS file in root of the module and add require instruction like that:

```js
// step1
var raml = require("raml-1-parser");
```

Create `test.raml` file in the same folder with the following contents:
```RAML
#%RAML 1.0
title: Pet shop
version: 1
baseUri: /shop

types:
  Pet:
    properties:
      name: string
      kind: string
      price: number
    example:
      name: "Snoopy"
      kind: "Mammal"
      price: 100

/pets:
  get:
    responses:
      200:
        body:
          application/json:
            type: Pet[]
  post:
    body:
      application/json:
        type: Pet
  /{id}:
    put:
      body:
        application/json:
          type: Pet
    delete:
      responses:
        204:

```

To do this, create your RAML 1.0 file using Atom editor with installed [apiworkbench plugin](http://apiworkbench.com/).

Edit your `getting_started.js` file to include RAML file loading:
```js
// step2
var fs = require("fs");
var path = require("path");

// Here we create a file name to be loaded
var fName = path.resolve(__dirname, "test.raml");

// Parse our RAML file with all the dependencies
var api = raml.loadSync(fName);
console.log(JSON.stringify(api, null, 2));

```

Run ```node getting_started.js``` again. If you see the JSON reflecting RAML file AST in the output, then RAML was parsed correctly.

## Parsing Basics

There are two modes for RAML parsing: synchronous and asynchronous.

`loadSync` method takes RAML file path as an argument and can take an optional argument containing a map of options. The returning value is JSON object.

Typical call looks like:
```js
var apiJSONObject = raml.loadSync(fName);
//here come manipulations with JSON, in example it can be printed
console.log(JSON.stringify(api, null, 2));
```

`load` method takes RAML file path as an argument and can take an optional argument containing a map of options. The returning value is a promise with JSON object as a result.

Typical call looks like:
```js
raml.load(fName).then(function(api){
  //here come manipulations with JSON, in example it can be printed
  console.log(JSON.stringify(api, null, 2));
})
```

The optional second argument of both `load` and `loadSync` methods is a map with some options. For now it only has a single boolean field: `expandLibraries` setting whether to expand libraries.

Sample call:
```js
var apiJSONObject = raml.loadSync(fName, {expandLibraries:false});
```

## The differences in API

A typical call with the old API with JSON as a final result looks like this:
```js
raml.loadApi(fName).then(function(apiTopLevel){

  apiTopLevel = apiTopLevel.expand(true)

  var apiJSON = apiTopLevel.toJSON({rootNodeDetails: true, serializeMetadata: true})

  console.log(JSON.stringify(apiJSON, null, 2));
})
```

Now the call looks like:

```js
raml.load(fName).then(function(apiJSON){

  console.log(JSON.stringify(apiJSON, null, 2));
})
```

In other words, user does not need to know about expansion and call it manually, user does not need to know about AST and perform its conversion to JSON manually.

The number of options and both `load***` method arguments were severily reduced too. Basically, there is a single option at the moment, probably we'll have to add another one for an ability to set up a custom file resolver.

## The differences in JSON

JSON result of the new `load` and `loadSync` methods is similar to what user was getting previously by calling `toJSON` for top-level API node.

Current output is described by the [JSON Schema](../tckJsonSchema/tckJsonSchema.json).

Following are the differences:

**Improvements**

| Schema Field | Current Type | Change |RAML version|
|:---------------|:---------------|:---------------|:----|  
| `mediaType` | Its either a `string` or an `array` | Only `array` |1.0|
| `types` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0|
| `traits` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0, 0.8|
| `resourceTypes` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0, 0.8|
| `annotationTypes` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0|
| `securitySchemes` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0, 0.8|
| `schemas` | Is serialized under the `schemas` key | serialize under the `types` key|1.0|
|`schema`| Is serialized under the `schema` key | serialize under the `type` key|1.0|
|`example` | Is serialized under the `example` key | serialize as one element array under the `examples` key|1.0|
|`value` (ExampleSpec) | string representation of example | actual example value: `string`, `object`, `array`, 'number', `boolean` or `null`|1.0|

**New**

| Field | Type | Description | RAML version |
|:---------------|:---------------|:--------------|:---------------|
| `completeRelativeUri`| `string` | Resource URI relative to Api root.  Adding it to any resource as a `string` value.| 1.0, 0.8 |
| `parentUrl` | `string` | For a nested resource it's the complete relative URI of its parent. For a top level resource it's an empty string. Adding it to any resource as a `string` value. | 1.0, 0.8 |
| `allUriParameters` | `array` | A union of URI parameters sets of the resource itself with URI parameters sets of all the resources which contain the resource. Adding it to any resource as an optional `array`.| 1.0, 0.8 |
| `allUriParameters`| `array` | `allUriParameters` value of the owning resource. Adding it to any method as an optional `array`.| 1.0, 0.8 |
| `mediaType` (for Type)| `string` | States the way of type definition: `application/json` or `application/xml` for external types and `application/raml+yaml` for the rest| 1.0 |

**Remove**
* `structuredExample`
* `structuredValue` (ExampleSpec)

## RAML Parser API Summary

This section provides an overview of the top-level methods of both old API and new API combined. Old API methods stay as-is and are not changed in any way compared to the current state, the only difference is in the JSON output.

### Parsing Functions

_There are dedicated functions for executing below functions synchronously (function name + `Sync`) or asynchronously. For example, `load` is an asynchronous function and returns a promise where as `loadSync` is synchronous. The below list only covers the asynchronous functions since the main purpose is exactly the same._

- `load(path, [options])` - new
- `loadRAML(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])` - old
- `loadApi(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])` - old
- `parseRAML(content, [options])` - old

Old API methods may be deprecated in future when an alternative based on high-level AST is ready. It is recommended to use the new API when possible.

#### `load(path, [options])`

Loads the given RAML document and returns it as a single JavaScript object. This method does expand the original RAML document by applying traits, resource types, and also including libraries to generate a single JavaScript object.

Method gets file `path` string and optional `options` map as parameters.

#### `loadRAML(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])`

Loads the given RAML document and returns it as top-level API node promise. This node can be further expanded by calling `expand(true)` and converted to JSON by calling `toJSON()`.

Method gets file `path` string, optional `extensionsAndOverlays` string array and `options` map as parameters. `extensionsAndOverlays` is an array of additional extensions and overlays to be applied to the file specified in `path` parameter.

#### `loadApi(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])`

Loads the given RAML API document and returns it as top-level API node promise. This node can be further expanded by calling `expand(true)` and converted to JSON by calling `toJSON()`. Fails for fragment types different from API.

Method gets file `path` string, optional `extensionsAndOverlays` string array and `options` map as parameters. `extensionsAndOverlays` is an array of additional extensions and overlays to be applied to the file specified in `path` parameter.

#### `parseRAML(content, [options])`

Loads the given RAML API document and returns it as top-level API node promise. This node can be further expanded by calling `expand(true)` and converted to JSON by calling `toJSON()`. Fails for fragment types different from API.

Method gets file `content` string and optional `options` map as parameters. Parser will still reach out from the original file contents if there are any outgoing links like libraries and includes.

#### Old API Options

* `attributeDefaults` - If true, attribute defaults will be returned if no actual vale is specified in RAML code. Affects only attributes.

* `filePath` - Absolute path of the RAML file. May be used when content is provided directly on RAML parser method call instead of specifying file path and making the parser to load the file.

* `fsResolver` - Module used for operations with file system. Should implement `content` method returning file contents taking file path as a parameter and `contentAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file path as a parameter.

* `httpResolver` - Module used for operations with web. Should implement `getResource` method returning file contents taking file url as a parameter and `getResourceAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file url as a parameter.

* `rejectOnErrors` - Whether to return Api which contains errors. If false, asynchronous methods promise result will fail.


#### New API Options

* `fsResolver` - Module used for operations with file system. Should implement `content` method returning file contents taking file path as a parameter and `contentAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file path as a parameter.

* `httpResolver` - Module used for operations with web. Should implement `getResource` method returning file contents taking file url as a parameter and `getResourceAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file url as a parameter.

Commit message:

https://github.com/raml-org/raml-js-parser-2/issues/564 : adding explicit statement for methods that will be removed in future.

documentation/TheNewApi.md, after:

# The New API

## Creating test files

These instructions assume that JS Parser was installed via NPM.

Use your favorite text editor to create `getting_started.js` JS file in root of the module and add require instruction like that:

```js
// step1
var raml = require("raml-1-parser");
```

Create `test.raml` file in the same folder with the following contents:
```RAML
#%RAML 1.0
title: Pet shop
version: 1
baseUri: /shop

types:
  Pet:
    properties:
      name: string
      kind: string
      price: number
    example:
      name: "Snoopy"
      kind: "Mammal"
      price: 100

/pets:
  get:
    responses:
      200:
        body:
          application/json:
            type: Pet[]
  post:
    body:
      application/json:
        type: Pet
  /{id}:
    put:
      body:
        application/json:
          type: Pet
    delete:
      responses:
        204:

```

To do this, create your RAML 1.0 file using Atom editor with installed [apiworkbench plugin](http://apiworkbench.com/).

Edit your `getting_started.js` file to include RAML file loading:
```js
// step2
var fs = require("fs");
var path = require("path");

// Here we create a file name to be loaded
var fName = path.resolve(__dirname, "test.raml");

// Parse our RAML file with all the dependencies
var api = raml.loadSync(fName);
console.log(JSON.stringify(api, null, 2));

```

Run ```node getting_started.js``` again. If you see the JSON reflecting RAML file AST in the output, then RAML was parsed correctly.

## Parsing Basics

There are two modes for RAML parsing: synchronous and asynchronous.

`loadSync` method takes RAML file path as an argument and can take an optional argument containing a map of options. The returning value is JSON object.

Typical call looks like:
```js
var apiJSONObject = raml.loadSync(fName);
//here come manipulations with JSON, in example it can be printed
console.log(JSON.stringify(api, null, 2));
```

`load` method takes RAML file path as an argument and can take an optional argument containing a map of options. The returning value is a promise with JSON object as a result.

Typical call looks like:
```js
raml.load(fName).then(function(api){
  //here come manipulations with JSON, in example it can be printed
  console.log(JSON.stringify(api, null, 2));
})
```

The optional second argument of both `load` and `loadSync` methods is a map with some options. For now it only has a single boolean field: `expandLibraries` setting whether to expand libraries.

Sample call:
```js
var apiJSONObject = raml.loadSync(fName, {expandLibraries:false});
```

## The differences in API

A typical call with the old API with JSON as a final result looks like this:
```js
raml.loadApi(fName).then(function(apiTopLevel){

  apiTopLevel = apiTopLevel.expand(true)

  var apiJSON = apiTopLevel.toJSON({rootNodeDetails: true, serializeMetadata: true})

  console.log(JSON.stringify(apiJSON, null, 2));
})
```

Now the call looks like:

```js
raml.load(fName).then(function(apiJSON){

  console.log(JSON.stringify(apiJSON, null, 2));
})
```

In other words, user does not need to know about expansion and call it manually, user does not need to know about AST and perform its conversion to JSON manually.

The number of options and both `load***` method arguments were severily reduced too. Basically, there is a single option at the moment, probably we'll have to add another one for an ability to set up a custom file resolver.

## The differences in JSON

JSON result of the new `load` and `loadSync` methods is similar to what user was getting previously by calling `toJSON` for top-level API node.

Current output is described by the [JSON Schema](../tckJsonSchema/tckJsonSchema.json).

Following are the differences:

**Improvements**

| Schema Field | Current Type | Change |RAML version|
|:---------------|:---------------|:---------------|:----|  
| `mediaType` | Its either a `string` or an `array` | Only `array` |1.0|
| `types` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0|
| `traits` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0, 0.8|
| `resourceTypes` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0, 0.8|
| `annotationTypes` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0|
| `securitySchemes` | An `array` of single key objects | `map` |1.0, 0.8|
| `schemas` | Is serialized under the `schemas` key | serialize under the `types` key|1.0|
|`schema`| Is serialized under the `schema` key | serialize under the `type` key|1.0|
|`example` | Is serialized under the `example` key | serialize as one element array under the `examples` key|1.0|
|`value` (ExampleSpec) | string representation of example | actual example value: `string`, `object`, `array`, 'number', `boolean` or `null`|1.0|

**New**

| Field | Type | Description | RAML version |
|:---------------|:---------------|:--------------|:---------------|
| `completeRelativeUri`| `string` | Resource URI relative to Api root.  Adding it to any resource as a `string` value.| 1.0, 0.8 |
| `parentUrl` | `string` | For a nested resource it's the complete relative URI of its parent. For a top level resource it's an empty string. Adding it to any resource as a `string` value. | 1.0, 0.8 |
| `allUriParameters` | `array` | A union of URI parameters sets of the resource itself with URI parameters sets of all the resources which contain the resource. Adding it to any resource as an optional `array`.| 1.0, 0.8 |
| `allUriParameters`| `array` | `allUriParameters` value of the owning resource. Adding it to any method as an optional `array`.| 1.0, 0.8 |
| `mediaType` (for Type)| `string` | States the way of type definition: `application/json` or `application/xml` for external types and `application/raml+yaml` for the rest| 1.0 |

**Remove**
* `structuredExample`
* `structuredValue` (ExampleSpec)

## RAML Parser API Summary

This section provides an overview of the top-level methods of both old API and new API combined. Old API methods stay as-is and are not changed in any way compared to the current state, the only difference is in the JSON output.

### Parsing Functions

_There are dedicated functions for executing below functions synchronously (function name + `Sync`) or asynchronously. For example, `load` is an asynchronous function and returns a promise where as `loadSync` is synchronous. The below list only covers the asynchronous functions since the main purpose is exactly the same._

- `load(path, [options])` - new
- `loadRAML(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])` - old
- `loadApi(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])` - old
- `parseRAML(content, [options])` - old

Old API methods may be deprecated in future when an alternative based on high-level AST is ready. It is recommended to use the new API when possible.

#### `load(path, [options])`

Loads the given RAML document and returns it as a single JavaScript object. This method does expand the original RAML document by applying traits, resource types, and also including libraries to generate a single JavaScript object.

Method gets file `path` string and optional `options` map as parameters.

#### `loadRAML(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])`

Loads the given RAML document and returns it as top-level API node promise. This node can be further expanded by calling `expand(true)` and converted to JSON by calling `toJSON()`.

Method gets file `path` string, optional `extensionsAndOverlays` string array and `options` map as parameters. `extensionsAndOverlays` is an array of additional extensions and overlays to be applied to the file specified in `path` parameter.

This method will be removed in the distant future.

#### `loadApi(path, [extensionsAndOverlays], [options])`

Loads the given RAML API document and returns it as top-level API node promise. This node can be further expanded by calling `expand(true)` and converted to JSON by calling `toJSON()`. Fails for fragment types different from API.

Method gets file `path` string, optional `extensionsAndOverlays` string array and `options` map as parameters. `extensionsAndOverlays` is an array of additional extensions and overlays to be applied to the file specified in `path` parameter.

This method will be removed in the distant future.

#### `parseRAML(content, [options])`

Loads the given RAML API document and returns it as top-level API node promise. This node can be further expanded by calling `expand(true)` and converted to JSON by calling `toJSON()`. Fails for fragment types different from API.

Method gets file `content` string and optional `options` map as parameters. Parser will still reach out from the original file contents if there are any outgoing links like libraries and includes.

This method will be removed in the distant future.

#### Old API Options

* `attributeDefaults` - If true, attribute defaults will be returned if no actual vale is specified in RAML code. Affects only attributes.

* `filePath` - Absolute path of the RAML file. May be used when content is provided directly on RAML parser method call instead of specifying file path and making the parser to load the file.

* `fsResolver` - Module used for operations with file system. Should implement `content` method returning file contents taking file path as a parameter and `contentAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file path as a parameter.

* `httpResolver` - Module used for operations with web. Should implement `getResource` method returning file contents taking file url as a parameter and `getResourceAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file url as a parameter.

* `rejectOnErrors` - Whether to return Api which contains errors. If false, asynchronous methods promise result will fail.


#### New API Options

* `fsResolver` - Module used for operations with file system. Should implement `content` method returning file contents taking file path as a parameter and `contentAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file path as a parameter.

* `httpResolver` - Module used for operations with web. Should implement `getResource` method returning file contents taking file url as a parameter and `getResourceAsync` method returning file contents promise and taking file url as a parameter.
